Extracting all images and segmentation masks for replica is a bit easy, but it's a bit complicated for matterport habitat 0.2, as they don't have a list of all the regions available, in their latest version (HM3D v0.2), which is
[here](https://github.com/matterport/habitat-matterport-3dresearch). They don't have much documentation for segmentation as well, so I decided to make my scripts public since it took a while for me to figure this out.

The script basically looks for heights
from random unique navigable points, and uses them as "floors". It then extracts a topdown view of this floor and builds an "island" of navigable regions.
It then creates various points on the island, separated by a certain distance, and looks around to take 360/turn_angle number of images.
These points are sometimes not navigable, or it looks outside the island, giving a black image. The script removes these images by 
checking if there are more than 15% black(index 0) pixels in the segmentation mask that is generated by habitat.
I think this extracts most of the images in the navigable regions. Any suggestions or questions are welcome.

* The dataset should be downloaded by following the instructions for HM3D 0.2 [here](https://github.com/facebookresearch/habitat-sim/blob/main/DATASETS.md):
* Make sure you have habitat installed. Conda worked for me, but other methods should work too. Follow the instructions [here](https://github.com/facebookresearch/habitat-sim).
* The scripts were built by referring the demo [here](https://github.com/facebookresearch/habitat-sim/blob/main/examples/tutorials/colabs/ECCV_2020_Navigation.ipynb).
